backend-learning-roadmap.md, before:

# Backend Roadmap 

## Listing what I know about the domain 
## What is Backend Engineering as per my knowledge ? OR What do I mean when I say Backend Engineering ?
1. There are two aspect to a software engineering project mostly
1. There are can one too 
1. Those are categorised by 
	1. Frontend Engineering 
	1. Backend Engineering 
1. Frontend Engineering involves with working of the user facing part or we could call it as User Interface 
1. Backend Engineering involves with working on the logic that executes when the user perform some action on the User Interface 
1. Backend Engineering can also more classified based on which part of the component that you are working for 
1. Which component are there in the backend engineering?
	1. Web Servers 
	1. Database 
	1. Client-Side 
	1. API
1. What are the domain that I think is necessary?
	1. Networking 
	1. Security 
	1. Cryptography 
	1. Database 
	1. Distributed Systems 
	1. Cloud Related Things 
	1. Container
1. There are different sub-domain that I can choose to work in Backend Engineering 

## Topics that is necessary for a Backend Engineer
1. API
1. Proxies
1. Load Balancer 
1. Database & Caching
1. Content Delivery Network 

## Crowdsourcing learning topics from the internet 
### Backend Engineering ( Beginner ) - [Hussein Nasser](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQnljOFTspQUNnO4p00ua_C5mKTfldiYT)
1. OSI Model 
1. Transmission Control Protocol vs User Datagram Protocol
1. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol 1.0, 1.1, 2, 3
1. Web Servers 
1. Symmetrical & Assymetrical Encryption
1. Transport Layer Security 
1. Network Adderess Translation 
1. Proxy vs Reverse Proxy
1. Relational Database ACID Transaction
1. B- tree vs B+ tree in Production Database System 
1. Publish-Subscribe Architecture
1. Asynchronous vs Multithreading and Multiprocessing Programming
1. Synchronous vs Asynchronous Application
1. How google works?
1. Database Indexing
1. Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
1. Percentile Tail Latency 
1. Load Balancing Server-Sent Events (SSE)
1. Synchronous & Asynchronous Workloads

### Backend Engineering ( Intermediate ) - [Hussein Nasser](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQnljOFTspQWGuRmwojJ6LiV0ejm6eOcs)
1. TCP 3-way Handshake
1. Layer 4 vs Layer 7 Proxies 
1. Database Engines 
1. Load Balancing in Layer 4 vs Layer 7
1. Nginx
1. HAProxy
1. Virtual IP Addresses 
1. Fail-over and High-Availability
1. Active-Active to Active-Passive Cluster
1. Connection Pooling
1. Horitzontal vs Vertical Database Partioning
1. Database Partioning
1. Database Sharding
1. Eventual Consistency in Relational Database
1. Avoid Double Booking and Race Conditions
1. RabbitMQ
1. Apache Kafka
1. Microservices
1. DevTools Waterfall
1. Stateless vs Stateful Backends
1. Index Scan vs Index Only Scan
1. Traefik 
1. Envoy Proxy
1. CQRS
1. Long Polling
1. Optimistic vs Pessimistic Concurrency Control

### Backend Engineering ( Advanced ) - [Hussien Nasser](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQnljOFTspQUybacGRk1b_p13dgI-SmcZ)
1. Database Replication
1. Database Cursors
1. Distributed Transaction in Microservices
1. Key vs Non-Key Column Database 
1. WebRTC
1. IP Tables
1. Amplification in Backend
1. Microsoft IIS

### System Design - [Gaurav Sen](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMCXHnjXnTnvo6alSjVkgxV-VH6EPyvoX)
1. Horizontal vs Vertical Scaling
1. Load Balancing
1. Consistent Hashing
1. Message Queue
1. Microservice Architecture
1. Database Sharding
1. Distributed Caching
1. API 
1. Capacity Planning and Estimation
1. Publisher Subscriber Model
1. Why Do Database Fail?
1. Content Delivery Network
1. Single Point of Failure
1. Event Driven System
1. NoSQL Databases
1. How Database Scales?
1. Service Discovery & Heartbeats in Microservices
1. Distributed Consensus 
1. Data Replication
1. Avoid Cascading Failures in Microservices
1. Containers & Virtualisation
1. Isolation Trees
1. Monolith 


## Resources To Learn From 
### Blogs
1. [Highscalability Blog](http://highscalability.com/)

### Books 
1. Designing Data Intensive Application by Martin Kleppman

Commit message:

first draft of learning topics

backend-learning-roadmap.md, after:

# Backend Roadmap 

## Listing what I know about the domain 
## What is Backend Engineering as per my knowledge ? OR What do I mean when I say Backend Engineering ?
1. There are two aspect to a software engineering project mostly
1. There are can one too 
1. Those are categorised by 
	1. Frontend Engineering 
	1. Backend Engineering 
1. Frontend Engineering involves with working of the user facing part or we could call it as User Interface 
1. Backend Engineering involves with working on the logic that executes when the user perform some action on the User Interface 
1. Backend Engineering can also more classified based on which part of the component that you are working for 
1. Which component are there in the backend engineering?
	1. Web Servers 
	1. Database 
	1. Client-Side 
	1. API
1. What are the domain that I think is necessary?
	1. Networking 
	1. Security 
	1. Cryptography 
	1. Database 
	1. Distributed Systems 
	1. Cloud Related Things 
	1. Container
1. There are different sub-domain that I can choose to work in Backend Engineering 

## Topics that is necessary for a Backend Engineer
1. API
1. Proxies
1. Load Balancer 
1. Database & Caching
1. Content Delivery Network 
1. Programming Language 
I'll be using Golang for this learning process 

## Crowdsourcing learning topics from the internet 
### Backend Engineering ( Beginner ) - [Hussein Nasser](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQnljOFTspQUNnO4p00ua_C5mKTfldiYT)
1. OSI Model 
1. Transmission Control Protocol vs User Datagram Protocol
1. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol 1.0, 1.1, 2, 3
1. Web Servers 
1. Symmetrical & Assymetrical Encryption
1. Transport Layer Security 
1. Network Adderess Translation 
1. Proxy vs Reverse Proxy
1. Relational Database ACID Transaction
1. B- tree vs B+ tree in Production Database System 
1. Publish-Subscribe Architecture
1. Asynchronous vs Multithreading and Multiprocessing Programming
1. Synchronous vs Asynchronous Application
1. How google works?
1. Database Indexing
1. Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
1. Percentile Tail Latency 
1. Load Balancing Server-Sent Events (SSE)
1. Synchronous & Asynchronous Workloads

### Backend Engineering ( Intermediate ) - [Hussein Nasser](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQnljOFTspQWGuRmwojJ6LiV0ejm6eOcs)
1. TCP 3-way Handshake
1. Layer 4 vs Layer 7 Proxies 
1. Database Engines 
1. Load Balancing in Layer 4 vs Layer 7
1. Nginx
1. HAProxy
1. Virtual IP Addresses 
1. Fail-over and High-Availability
1. Active-Active to Active-Passive Cluster
1. Connection Pooling
1. Horitzontal vs Vertical Database Partioning
1. Database Partioning
1. Database Sharding
1. Eventual Consistency in Relational Database
1. Avoid Double Booking and Race Conditions
1. RabbitMQ
1. Apache Kafka
1. Microservices
1. DevTools Waterfall
1. Stateless vs Stateful Backends
1. Index Scan vs Index Only Scan
1. Traefik 
1. Envoy Proxy
1. CQRS
1. Long Polling
1. Optimistic vs Pessimistic Concurrency Control

### Backend Engineering ( Advanced ) - [Hussien Nasser](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQnljOFTspQUybacGRk1b_p13dgI-SmcZ)
1. Database Replication
1. Database Cursors
1. Distributed Transaction in Microservices
1. Key vs Non-Key Column Database 
1. WebRTC
1. IP Tables
1. Amplification in Backend
1. Microsoft IIS

### System Design - [Gaurav Sen](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMCXHnjXnTnvo6alSjVkgxV-VH6EPyvoX)
1. Horizontal vs Vertical Scaling
1. Load Balancing
1. Consistent Hashing
1. Message Queue
1. Microservice Architecture
1. Database Sharding
1. Distributed Caching
1. API 
1. Capacity Planning and Estimation
1. Publisher Subscriber Model
1. Why Do Database Fail?
1. Content Delivery Network
1. Single Point of Failure
1. Event Driven System
1. NoSQL Databases
1. How Database Scales?
1. Service Discovery & Heartbeats in Microservices
1. Distributed Consensus 
1. Data Replication
1. Avoid Cascading Failures in Microservices
1. Containers & Virtualisation
1. Isolation Trees
1. Monolith 


## Resources To Learn From 
### Blogs
1. [Highscalability Blog](http://highscalability.com/)

### Books 
1. Designing Data Intensive Application by Martin Kleppman
